and and yet I think that we can go ahead
and clean up a few highlights and then
I'm going to use my 4b and push some
things a little farther back and this is
the only time that I would really use it
it's just rare that I ever used the 4b
but I think that probably in most of the
time I find a place where I can go in
into the darkest place and show
something even deeper the deepest part
of that value so that's what I'm going
to do right now and because we only have
one overhead camera I'm gonna have to
really pay attention here let's go ahead
and go a little closer here so that we
can pick out a few things let's look at
our source here now it'd probably be
good to be able to use my lighter one
now I'm thinking about it so that I can
tell where is the deepest part of some
of these dark lines it's real easy to
come in and do oh I'm sorry I had the
wrong one it's real easy to just think
about this all as a almost an eyeliner
and make it all the same but as you can
see what I've already tried to do is
show a little bit of a difference in the
darkest place versus the lightest place
and so that's what I'm going to do I'm
just going to touch in a couple places
still trying to use maintain the clean
edges and also keep this in a in a you
know a soft transition but you can see
now I've I might back this off but it's
darker here it comes over here and gets
a little lighter and it gets darker over
here this is another opportunity for me
not to press too hard I'm coming down to
the place now where I just want to
emphasize a few things I'm going to show
where it goes underneath the eyelid I
love that separation I want to make sure
that that's you know I can show
to the best of my ability and that is
all quite dark in here but maybe I can
emphasize that edge just a little bit we
want to know where it disappears and now
maybe I can come back in I want to be
careful just because I have my 4b I
don't want to go ahead and say oh this
is a great opportunity I think I'll make
everything dark the the effort that I'm
making now is to maintain the gradations
maintain the the range of value the same
quality I have built up with all my
other pencils but now I have a chance to
push it a little bit further just in the
darkest places and if I go away just
using almost a line then I'm really
defeating my purpose - I want to have a
clean edge but I don't want to have it
just become a dark line on there so
let's see what we can do here
let's go ahead and end this up there
let's make a little more value in the
pupil here
taking a few liberties because it looks
like they're quite a bit lighter in this
lighter valued print I want to see some
difference you notice that it it almost
appears that this is darker than this
well I know that this is recessed in
there and so I'm going to take that
opportunity maybe I can push it back a
little bit further and if I can you can
see the value in not going to the
extreme until you're ready maybe just a
little bit of a separation in there I
hope it'll pick up on camera I think I
can see it here and I hope that I'm
pushing it back but I don't want to just
make a big flat spot I want to really
show that there is even a deeper part to
this area it would probably be back
closer to this or maybe up underneath
the hair you know let's see what we can
do about the top maybe there's a little
bit more value I can do with this one if
this starts just becoming something
that's going to be gaining all the
attention then I want to be very careful
that I'm not just making it too dark I
guess I can keep emphasizing that but I
I don't want to just have it catch the
eye I want it to enhance the drawing so
I'm going in between a little bit where
there could be the suggestion of
eyelashes here there's just a little
variance in value and so I want to take
my 4b opportunity to show the spaces in
between that are a little darker just in
a few little touches it doesn't take
much
you